Add kernel attributes and get/set functions to PyNEST module (#2114)
nest/nest-simulator: doc/userdoc/release_notes/v3.1/index.rst

All about NEST 3.1
==================

On this page you will find a summary of all breaking and non-breaking
changes from NEST 3.0 to NEST 3.1. On top of the simple auto-generated
release notes on GitHub, this page contains transition information
that allows you to update your scripts.

If you come from a version earlier than 3.0, please see our extensive
:doc:`transition guide from NEST 2.x to 3.0 <nest2_to_nest3/index>`.

New functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The two functions :py:func:`.get` and :py:func:`.set` have been added
on the level of the ``nest`` Python module. For now, they are just
shortcuts for :py:func:`.GetKernelStatus` and
:py:func:`.SetKernelStatus`. As the new functions might replace the
older ones in a future version of NEST, we advise to use the shortcuts
already now.

+--------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| NEST 3.0                                   | NEST 3.1                         |
+============================================+==================================+

> | nest.GetKernelStatus('network_size')       | nest.get('network_size)          |

Author: ```suggestion
| nest.GetKernelStatus('network_size')       | nest.get('network_size')         |
```

All about NEST 3.1
==================

This page contains a summary of all breaking and non-breaking changes
from NEST 3.0 to NEST 3.1. In addition to the `auto-generated release
notes on GitHub <https://github.com/nest/nest-simulator/releases/>`_,
this page also contains transition information that helps you to
update your simulation scripts when you come from an older version of
NEST.

If you transition from a version earlier than 3.0, please see our
extensive :doc:`transition guide from NEST 2.x to 3.0
<nest2_to_nest3/index>`.

.. contents:: On this page you'll find
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Access to kernel properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> With NEST 3.1 it is easier than ever to access properties of the NEST

Reviewer: @jougs @heplesser  Generally speaking the marketing language should be avoided in the documentation, but this is also the release information so I see it as a bit of an advertisement for the newest version. But maybe we should save this language for the press releases and user group announcements.

> simulation kernel. In addition to the traditional access methods

Author: ```suggestion
simulation kernel. Instead of using the traditional access methods
```

:py:func:`.GetKernelStatus` and :py:func:`.SetKernelStatus`,
properties can now also be set and retrieved via *direct kernel

> attributes*.

Author: This is the transition guide from 3.0 to 3.1. I thought that the sentence you deleted would help people who already know the old way to understand immediately what kernel attributes are. Also here: @jessica-mitchell?

> attributes*.

Reviewer 2: Then maybe "Instead of the traditional ..." rather than "In addition to the traditional ..."?

Where you previously had ``nest.SetKernelStatus({"resolution": 0.2})``
in your simulation script, you can now just write ``nest.resolution =

> 0.5``. Kernel attributes are first-class citizens of the NEST Python

Reviewer: Is "first-class citizen" a term that's used in Python?

It seems a bit sketchy to me.

Reviewer 3: Some might even say you're not a real Python user until you've complained not being a first-class citizen somewhere  😂 

Maybe:

```
Where you previously had ``nest.SetKernelStatus({"resolution": 0.2})``
in your simulation script, you can now write ``nest.resolution = 0.5``. 
Kernel attributes are documented and can make use of tab completion.
```

Reviewer: @jougs My suggestion would simply be to cut it so the sentence would read something like "Kernel attributes now ome with their own docstrings and even tab-completion works for them!"

> 0.5``. Kernel attributes are first-class citizens of the NEST Python
> module, which means that they come with their own docstrings and even
> tab-completion works for them!

Author: ```suggestion
0.5``. Kernel attributes now come with their own docstrings and even
tab-completion works for them!
```

  +-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
  | ``nest.SetKernelStatus({'resolution': 0.2})``   | ``nest.resolution = 0.2``                   |
  +-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
  |  ::                                             |                                             |
  |                                                 |  ::                                         |
  |     nest.SetKernelStatus({                      |                                             |
  |         'min_delay': 0.2,                       |     nest.set(min_delay=0.2, max_delay=2.0)  |
  |         'max_delay': 2.0                        |                                             |
  |     })                                          |                                             |
  +-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

.. admonition:: Deprecation info

      The use of the access functions :py:func:`.GetKernelStatus` and

>       :py:func:`.SetKernelStatus` is now deprecated and they will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :py:func:`.SetKernelStatus` is now deprecated, and they will be
```

      removed in a future version of NEST. To avoid porting trouble
      later on, we suggest you switch to using the new shortcuts

>       already now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      now.
```
